Fix/update extending tina docs (#1293)
tinacms/tinacms.org: content/docs/extending-tina/validation.md

---
title: Validation
id: '/docs/extending-tina/validation/'
prev: '/docs/extending-tina/overview'
next: '/docs/extending-tina/custom-field-components'
---

> Tina allows frontend validation to be provided in the form of a function. This function returns a `string` of an error message if the value is **invalid** and returns `null` if the field is **valid**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tina allows client-side validation using a validation function. This function returns a `string` error message if the value is **invalid** or `null` if the field is **valid**.
```

Example;
```ts
// .tina/schema.{js,tsx}

//...
{
    type: 'string'
    name: 'title',
    ui: {
        validate: (value)=>{
            if(value.length > 40){
                return 'Title can not be more then 40 characters long'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

<!-- TODO: add screenshot -->

To include other field values of the form in the validation, a data argument can be used.

```ts
// .tina/schema.{js,tsx}

/// ...
fields: [
    // Other fields...
        {
         name: "title",
         type: "string",
         ui: {
           validate: (value, data)=>{
             const lengthOfTitle = value?.length || 0
//  We have access to value of description by using data?.<Name of field>

>              const lengthOfDescription =data?.description?.length || 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             const lengthOfDescription = data?.description?.length || 0
```

             if(lengthOfTitle >= lengthOfDescription){

>                return 'The description must be longer then the title'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               return 'The description must be longer than the title'
```
